readme.md, before:

# 📊 Lineage viewer

Lineage exploration tool for Data pipelines.

This tool has been built initially as an alternative to Timextender's native lineage viewer, however the tool can easily be adapted to fit other use cases: Power BI, Qlik, etc.

Example:

> Images coming soon!

---

## 🚀 Features

- 📂 Local Project handling (Timextender XML only for now)
- 🧠 Interactive lineage exploration
- ⚡️ Fast and smart lineage computation (example: automatic table detection from views using REGEX)
- 🔄 Switch between table-based lineage for an overview and field-based lineage for details
- ⌗ Field types, warehouses, transformations, sources
- ✅ Compare multiple table or field lineages at the same time
- 😍 Clean, modern and visual interface

---

## 🧱 Architecture Overview

High-level explanation of how it works:

1. Project is loaded on user upload (Timextender XML only for now)
2. XML is parsed into structured objects -> `src/parsing/` and stored in an IndexedDB
3. Project is opened inside the viewer and layout is done with ElkJS -> `src/viewer/` & `src/lib/`
4. Lineage is computed whenever settings change or a new selection is made -> `src/data/`

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Vite, React, TypeScript, Tailwindcss, Shadcn, Reactflow
- **Storage**: IndexedDB
- **Parsing**: DOMParser (browser-native)

---

## 📦 Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dpcodebiz/lineageviewer
cd project
npm install
npm run dev
```

---

## Disclaimer

Code has been cleaned a little bit to prepare for this public release but further refactoring is more than welcome. Extensive user testing has been done, however bugs may still be present as there is no unit testing (please contribute ☺️).

Commit message:

feat: example images in readme

readme.md, after:

![Preview](docs/assets/preview.gif)

# Lineage viewer

Lineage exploration tool for data pipelines using React Flow.

This tool has been built initially as an alternative to Timextender's native lineage viewer, however the tool can easily be adapted to fit other use cases: Power BI, Qlik, etc.

Example:

![Simple pipeline](docs/assets/preview-simple.png)
![Fields details](docs/assets/preview-fields.png)
![Complex pipeline](docs/assets/preview-full.png)

---

## 🚀 Features

- 📂 Local Project handling (Timextender XML only for now)
- 🧠 Interactive lineage exploration
- ⚡️ Fast and smart lineage computation (example: automatic table detection from views using REGEX)
- 🔄 Switch between table-based lineage for an overview and field-based lineage for details
- ⌗ Field types, warehouses, transformations, sources
- ✅ Compare multiple table or field lineages at the same time
- 😍 Clean, modern and visual interface

## 🧱 Architecture Overview

High-level explanation of how it works:

1. Project is loaded on user upload (Timextender XML only for now)
2. XML is parsed into structured objects -> `src/parsing/` and stored in an IndexedDB
3. Project is opened inside the viewer and layout is done with ElkJS -> `src/viewer/` & `src/lib/`
4. Lineage is computed whenever settings change or a new selection is made -> `src/data/`

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Vite, React, TypeScript, Tailwindcss, Shadcn, Reactflow
- **Storage**: IndexedDB
- **Parsing**: DOMParser (browser-native)

## 📦 Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dpcodebiz/lineageviewer
cd project
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Disclaimer

Code has been cleaned a little bit to prepare for this public release but further refactoring is more than welcome. Extensive user testing has been done, however bugs may still be present as there is no unit testing (please contribute ☺️). Also, everything shown in the examples is from real projects but references have been replaced with fake names for security concerns.
